+++
title = "Status Update, December 2024"
date = 2024-12-25
+++

Hello! It's time for another status update!

December was quite uneventful. I really took a break from learning software
development (not entirely but like I lessened my interaction with it).

For tech related stuff, I have fully migrated
[roast](https://codeberg.org/Rusty-Geckos/roast) from GitHub to
[Codeberg](https://codeberg.org). The reason? For a long time, I want
to start slowly migrating away from GitHub for my open-source projects. I
want to inspire or advocate that it is possible to foster a community and
contribute with no big tech corporation managing our code with questionable
decisions and copyright issues.

Other than that, roast's development has come to a pause. I plan to write
an equivalent

[Otap](https://codeberg.org/Rusty-Geckos/otap) is still on-pause for a
year. But I really plan to resume its development starting 2025 alongside
roast.

For [rypper](https://codeberg.org/Rusty-Geckos/rypper/), that is still in
my mind. I hope that once otap is done, I will go back to rypper and start
working on it full-time. I really plan to make it a zypper alternative,
and if better, a zypper replacement.

Well, how about personal life? To be honest I rarely do this but currently,
I am healing from wounds I received from someone I trusted the most since
October.

Thankfully, the best decision of my life is to leave them out of my life so
I can finally focus on myself and my family. I am very happy that my family
is supportive despite whatever bad I had experienced.

Fortunately, a flower is blossoming again but I know what to do now and I
believe this new found flame will be someone I am willing to risk and become
part of my life. ❤️

I hope everyone have found peace, whether it's an event, a thing, or a person.
I hope everyone will never experience the awful things I have experienced. I
wish you all that you will only receive love and peace! ☺️

Merry Christmas 🎄🎄🎄 and see you all again next year where I will
be learning assembly, C, Elixir, Zig, Go, and Gleam to increase my knowledge
in computer programming! 🎉
