+++
title = "Status Update, April 2025"
date = 2025-04-23
authors = ["Soc Virnyl Estela"]
[taxonomies]
tags = ["lifestyle", "tech"]
+++

Hello there,

I haven't written in a while. I was busy touching grass.
But I also messed up. I lost a friend, well, not dead but lost a friendship.

It's someone who I courted for a long while for 5 months. But we had a
disagreement on things. So here we are. Honestly, I never wanted it to
happen. I tried to be apologetic and peaceful as possible but here I am. I
might have deserved it but I also believed it was worth a peaceful dialogue.
My advice to people who are experiencing this, don't be the person that
easily gets lost in thought and emotions. Learn to manage them. I wish them well,
and I hope they realise that it was out of good intent and it was an accident.

As for tech updates, I have figured out or at least I have some sample code for
an additional feature for [roast](https://codeberg.org/Rusty-Geckos/roast). It
is a feature to create tarballs from remote git repositories. Currently,
it is still on-pause even though I believe I can write the feature in a
day. Kind of burnt out lately, hence, I am engaging in casual dating and
friendships online, which I don't usually do. I just followed my friend's
suggestion. He is quite supportive. Thanks my man if you ever read this.

That's all for the update. I hope I will continue to write more updates but
this burnt out feeling is hindering my ability to. I'll probably hit to the gym
after writing this.
