+++
title = "What are my visions if I became a board member for openSUSE"
date = 2026-02-28T15:48:50Z
authors = ["Soc Virnyl Estela"]
+++

I actually read the governance proposal and I think it should be moved forward
but that's a collective idea and not really my own.

# So what are my own ideas?

I believe openSUSE is already a popular distribution. And it is really thanks to the
collective effort of the community, volunteers, and contributors.

But I also believe we can do more. My experience with volunteering and still developing
software to improve OpenBuildService packaging have shown me that it is possible to
increase adoption and contributions.

# More Asian Representation

But I want to tackle another problem, I haven't seen so much visibility of
openSUSE in southeast Asia.  Yes, there exists an openSUSE community Asia summit
held in Indonesia, and I also see some openSUSE members in Discord that are from
Malaysia, Indonesia and Philippines.  We may exist but we are few. And I think if I
became an openSUSE Board, I would gladly help out promote openSUSE in various places
e.g. encourage them to join conferences, workshops and the like.

# A need to improve our communications

openSUSE so far has low barrier to contributors, and I experienced the same thing
when I first joined because of very welcoming members such as Firstyear, LCP, and
sfaulken. I also made communications albeit uncommon from and to some openSUSE
contributors, mostly about fixing some bugs in packaging and also improving the packaging
situation. That in itself does not need improvement, after all, open source is a collective
effort and we spend our free time improving things whenever we can, hopefully not to the extent
of burnout.

## Blackbox nature of certain infrastructure

However, we do have a communications problem, and I think it's not really unique to openSUSE.
Old infra, sudden change of infra etcetera, you get it. A major issue I have with openSUSE
is the "blackbox" nature of OpenBuildService itself. It is _open-source_ but it's also
something that even I have a problem with. When the new git workflow was introduced, a lot of
it wasn't clearly stated. It was suddenly been given to contributors to adopt this workflow,
especially to devel projects where they are maintaining some software packages. I was able to
adapt during that change but my problem was not if I was able to adapt it but what changed.

- missing devel projects?
- namespaces such as with home projects
- git itself

I do have a blog post on it and why I was able to create my own namesspace and
"branched" project in [here](https://uncomfyhalomacro.pl/blog/202507192430/).


_But how? How do we improve the situation?_ I am not a SUSE employee nor I have been involved internally. That can
be solved by letting stakeholders know ahead infrastructure changes and
introduce testing and asking them for feedback for the sudden change. Not all
are actually welcoming the new workflow but it has happened and I don't think
that it is planned to be reverted as it seems this was the new workflow in the
future.

# Why I am not cut out for board?

Being a volunteer does not mean I can give everyone my time. I also have a
personal situation where I might be unfit to be board. This includes my own
personal finances as I am unemployed and still looking for jobs (which affects
my chances to go to conferences and meetups) and the lack of leadership
experience I have because of my reserved nature. These are the reasons why I
don't think you should vote me for board membership. And ***I believe you should
not at all vote for me***. It's also partly my fault for _trying out_ even
though I am quite aware that it was not the best decision for me at all.

If you want openSUSE to improve, vote those that have
been part of openSUSE for quite a long while with years of community experience
and also because they know the ins and outs of the infra, especially those who
are also SUSE employees.

I might not be a good candidate for now, but if my personal life got better and
the situation improves, I will try again if I can help out the community better
as a board member.

Vote wisely, dearies.
